# <span style="color:rgb(0,225,0)">Telescope</span>
It is a device that gather light. Those gathered light are concentrated in a smaller area forming a small image of the object. Then this obtained image is magnified with respect eyepiece. The light gathering power depends on the diameter of the optical element (mirror / lens). The gathering of light is directly proportional to the diameter of the optical element. The diameter also determine the amount of details that can be observed. *The relation between the diameter of the optical element and light gathering is not linear. the light gather is proportional to the square of the diameter*. The diameter of human pupil is 1/4inch. Most of the telescope works with curved mirror then lense. The size of the main mirror or lens determines how well a telescope can collect light. The larger a mirror or lens, the more light it collects, and the better its ability to detect fainter objects
## <span style="color:rgb(200,225,150)"><u>Types</u></span>
Most basically telescopes are of two types reflecting and refracting. The refractor type mostly use converging mirror and the reflective type mostly use concave mirror. The reflecting telescope gether and focus the light by means of concave mirror. The refracting telescope do the same by means of concave lense. The reflector model needs a secondary mirror to direct the light to the eyepiece. The Newtonian, the Schimith-Cassegrain and Maksutov are reflector types. Refracting telescope focus the incoming light by means of lense. The light that enters in lense, bends/refracts. Galilean, Achromatic and Apochromatic is based on refractive type.
### <span style="color:rgb(200,50,30)"><u>Reflective Telescope</u></span>
Refraction refers to change in direction of waves from on medium to another which makes change in it's speed. Refractive index varies according to wavelength. The refractor also known as **dioptrics**, that uses lenses to refract (bend) the light collected on telescope. This refraction causes the parallel light rays converge at a focal point at the opposite end, where they can be  magnified by the eyepiece.
